Welcome, girls, to this lecture.
In this lecture, we are going to learn about X CTL.
So if you guys and girls watch the last lecture, X CTL is my favorite way to spin up cluster.
When you are learning and in testing and development outside of the DevOps tools which we have to implement
in production.
So what is the CTL?
It is a CLI tool for creating clusters on ICS.
So you can think of think of it as you go to a terminal.
You, you type a command, press enter and it brings up a cluster.
This is actually easier than console for real.
So the reason is it abstracts lots of stuff.
So let's say you want to create a CSS cluster with the manage node group or you want to create a cluster
for target.
So if you want to do that using console, you have to do multiple things like first, let's say for
target you you have to create a guest cluster and then you have to go create a target profile and forget
only works with the private subnet currently.
So it has to make sure that all your subnets are the subnets you are going to use for the target is
private ls is going to fail, which is a really pain in the butt because you at this point you have
already created the cluster.
Then you try to create forget profile and it's going to fail for regular guest cluster.
If you want to create a node group, which is which, you are going to learn about it later on, if
you want to do that from your console, then you have to go through multiple consoles in multiple clicks
and multiple screens.
And it also does a lot of things behind the scenes, such as if a new VPC needs to be created, new
subnet, new security group, routing tables, all that stuff, it actually submits a cloud formation.
And when we do that demo, you will see how much stuff it actually abstracts from you.
It makes your life really easy so you, the almighty user, will submit a command, something like X,
it'll create cluster and then it's going to bring up the ex cluster or the target running on x.
So I know I put this against create cluster in here, but please don't submit it.
Why?
Because I'm going to show you in the next screen.
So these are some commands.
So if you type in this case, it'll create cluster and submit.
It is going to create a case.
However, it's going to create X with two MX five large worker nodes and then five dot large SC two
does not fall under free tier and you have to pay for it.
So what do you do?
So generally this is the command I use so you can still create cluster and then that's just name.
You can give a name to your ex cluster and then does dash fashion.
You can specify which Kubernetes version you want to run in the case, and then this not tie field does
does not type.
This is where you can put in the instance type that you want to use.
So I'm going to put t three dot micro because they are the free tier and then DAZ does nodes too.
That means it will spin up to worker nodes.
So if you want one worker nodes, you make this one and if you want three, you put this three, you
got the idea.
So what it does create a cluster with Kubernetes version 1.15 with 2t3 micro nodes.
So next command is also quite commonly used.
So on top of what this command is doing, so this command has the node group name and also does dash
manage what it does that exe actually manages your worker nodes as part of managed node group.
We're going to learn about managed not group in detail lectures down the line on the last command that
is used a lot is x it'll create cluster.
Does does name give a name until this point everything is same with this command.
But then we have this dash dash forget.
So what it does is not only it's going to spin up the X cluster, the control plane, it's also going
to create a target profile which you can use from get go to deploy your pods as forget.
So we have a whole chapter on target.
So you will see this command in action in that chapter a lot.
So what are some things that you can do with AK Steel?
So these commands I just put for the create, but there is a lot more to settle than just creating the
cluster.
So you can create, get list and delete clusters.
With Castiel, you can create drain and delete node groups, you can scale a node group and and don't
worry about this term node group.
Like I said, we have a separate lecture on node group and node group will become clear for now.
Think of it as a collection of worker nodes that A.W. as managers for you, you can update a cluster,
you can use, customize, configure, VPC, networking and a bunch of other stuff.
So one thing to note that X CTL works only on X cluster.
There are different ways to run Kubernetes, right?
Because you can run Kubernetes on C two.
We can run Kubernetes on prem.
You can run Kubernetes on a Google container engine.
You can still want to work on that.
As the name says, it is only for x y.
I am saying you guys and girls this because there's another very popular command called Cube Steel.
Sometimes people get confused between Cube Ctrl and CTL, so Cube still works on all Kubernetes cluster,
but X CTL works only on X cluster.
So with that node, let's learn about Cube CTL in the next video.
And then we're going to do a demo together with CTL and Cube CTL.
All right, guys and girls, I'll see you in the next lecture by.